README.md, before:

# Kaos Effect Pedal

Kaos is a simple yet robust VST3 effect pedal that mixes an input signal with an adjustable white noise signal to add texture to the sound. The effect pedal features a slider to adjust the input-noise mixing along with 2 distortion effects and an adjustable low-pass filter.

<p align="center">
    <img src="images/estore/Banner2.png" alt="Kaos Effect Pedal image" width=300>
</p>

## Table of Contents

---
* [What is Kaos?](#what-is-kaos)
    * [Pedal Settings](#pedal-settings)
* [License](#license)

## What is Kaos?

---
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

As stated earlier, Kaos is a VST3 effect pedal that mixes input signals with a white noise signal and features various distortion effects and a lowpass filter. Below is a summary of its various parameters.

### Pedal Settings
Kaos has 4 different adjustable parameters that impacts the mixing and timbre of the noise it generates. All of these parameters' values range from 0 to 1.

1. **Balance:** This adjusts the mixing of the white noise signal and the input signal. A Balance of 0 results in no noise being mixed in, while a Balance of 1 results in the output consisting entirely of white noise. 
    > Lower Balance values are weighted more than higher Balance values according to a square root curve. This means that, for example, changing the Balance slider from 0.2 to 0.3 results in a greater percentage of additional white noise being mixed in compared to changing the Balance slider from 0.8 to 0.9. 
    >
    > This was done due to the fact that if Balance values are handled linearly (e.g. a slider value of 0.25 indicating an output consisting of 25% white noise), then lower values were difficult to discern and had little difference between them compared to higher values.
2. **Suffocate:** Higher values of Suffocate cause the pedal output to become increasingly muffled. 
    > Behind the scenes, Kaos performs a modified, retro-style phase distortion on the noise signal, with the value of the Suffocation slider equaling the amount of phase distortion applied.
3. **Crunch:** Higher Crunch values result in a harsher white noise generated.
    > The Crunch slider raises the white noise signal generated by the effect pedal to an exponent that directly varies with the slider's value, resulting in a very harsh and sharp distortion effect.
4. **Softness:** The opposite of Crunch, higher values of Softness result in a softer and more muted white noise generated. This does not negate the Crunch value, though, so this parameter can be adjusted in tandem with Crunch to create interesting muted, crackling noise effects.
    > Softness nonlinearly impacts the cutoff frequency of the inbuilt lowpass filter of Kaos's white noise generator. The Softness varies inversely with the cutoff frequency, meaning higher values of softness indicate a lower cutoff frequency.

## License

---
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

Kaos is licensed under the GNU General Public License Version 3 (GPLv3). The full license can be read under the `LICENSE` file bundled with the effect pedal.

Commit message:

Add installation and asset credits

README.md, after:

# Kaos Effect Pedal

Kaos is a simple yet robust VST3 effect pedal that mixes an input signal with an adjustable white noise signal to add texture to the sound. The effect pedal features a slider to adjust the input-noise mixing along with 2 distortion effects and an adjustable low-pass filter.

<p align="center">
    <img src="images/estore/Banner2.png" alt="Kaos Effect Pedal image" width=300>
</p>

## Table of Contents

---
* [What is Kaos?](#what-is-kaos)
    * [Pedal Settings](#pedal-settings)
* [Installation](#installation)
    * [Windows](#windows)
    * [MacOS](#macos)
* [Asset Credits](#asset-credits)
* [License](#license)

## What is Kaos?

---
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

As stated earlier, Kaos is a VST3 effect pedal that mixes input signals with a white noise signal and features various distortion effects and a lowpass filter. Below is a summary of its various parameters.

### Pedal Settings
Kaos has 4 different adjustable parameters that impacts the mixing and timbre of the noise it generates. All of these parameters' values range from 0 to 1.

1. **Balance:** This adjusts the mixing of the white noise signal and the input signal. A Balance of 0 results in no noise being mixed in, while a Balance of 1 results in the output consisting entirely of white noise. 
    > Lower Balance values are weighted more than higher Balance values according to a square root curve. This means that, for example, changing the Balance slider from 0.2 to 0.3 results in a greater percentage of additional white noise being mixed in compared to changing the Balance slider from 0.8 to 0.9. 
    >
    > This was done due to the fact that if Balance values are handled linearly (e.g. a slider value of 0.25 indicating an output consisting of 25% white noise), then lower values were difficult to discern and had little difference between them compared to higher values.
2. **Suffocate:** Higher values of Suffocate cause the pedal output to become increasingly muffled. 
    > Behind the scenes, Kaos performs a modified, retro-style phase distortion on the noise signal, with the value of the Suffocation slider equaling the amount of phase distortion applied.
3. **Crunch:** Higher Crunch values result in a harsher white noise generated.
    > The Crunch slider raises the white noise signal generated by the effect pedal to an exponent that directly varies with the slider's value, resulting in a very harsh and sharp distortion effect.
4. **Softness:** The opposite of Crunch, higher values of Softness result in a softer and more muted white noise generated. This does not negate the Crunch value, though, so this parameter can be adjusted in tandem with Crunch to create interesting muted, crackling noise effects.
    > Softness nonlinearly impacts the cutoff frequency of the inbuilt lowpass filter of Kaos's white noise generator. The Softness varies inversely with the cutoff frequency, meaning higher values of softness indicate a lower cutoff frequency.

## Installation

---
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)
### Windows
Download the `.exe` installer from the [latest release](https://github.com/Sinistral-Synths/Kaos/releases/latest) and run it. If you already have CSound 6.7+ installed on your computer, be sure to uncheck the option to install it in the installer.

### MacOS
> <b>Note:</b> A version of [64-bit CSound 6.7+](https://csound.com/download.html) needs to be installed on your machine for both the VST3 plugin and the binary distributions of Kaos to work.

Download the VST3 version of the `.zip` or `.tar.gz` archive from the [latest release](https://github.com/Sinistral-Synths/Kaos/releases/latest) on GitHub. Extract the archive into a folder and move the extracted folder to the following location: `Library/Audio/Plug-ins/VST3`

Afterward, fire up your DAW and re-scan for plugins to make sure Kaos shows up.

## Asset Credits

---
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

The knob designs are slightly modified versions of the simple and wave knob tempaltes of the [KnobMan3D](https://github.com/g200kg/knobman3d) filmstrip generator. The font used in the UI is the Strasua font by [Typodermic Fonts](https://www.dafont.com/strasua.font).

## License

---
[Back to top](#table-of-contents)

The GNU General Public License v3.0 2024 - [Kedar Panchal](https://github.com/KedarPanchal). Please look at the [LICENSE](LICENSE) for further information.
